added reports section TEDU-124 (#101)
mautic/user-documentation: docs/reports/reports.rst

    
   * Emails
   * Emails Sent

5. :doc:`Forms</components/forms>`
   
   * Forms
   * Form Submissions

6. :doc:`Contacts</contacts/manage_contacts>`
   
   * Contacts
   * Multi Touch Attributions
   * First Touch Attributions
   * Last Touch Attributions
   * Contact Point Log
   * Frequency Rules
   * Segment Membership
   * Do Not Contact
   * UTM Codes

7. :doc:`Companies</companies/companies_overview>`
   
   * Companies

8. :doc:`Mobile Notifications</channels/marketing_messages>`
   
   * Mobile Notifications
   * Mobile Notifications Sent

9. :doc:`Pages</components/landing_pages>`
    
   * Landing Pages
   * Page hits

10. Videos

    * Video hits

As demonstrated, Mautic displays the data sources in the format: ``<Parent data source> <Child data source>``

The parent data source provides a high-level summary of the data while the child data source provides a more granular view of Contact behavior that includes your Custom Fields and values.

* **Description (optional)** - Add detailed information about the Report, helping you and other Users better understand what the Report is for. You may want to include more information about filters, people, or departments.

> * **Published** - Select **Yes** to ensure that the Report is active and can be sent at whatever schedule is set in the Report options.

Author: Okay. I will look at them again

.. note:: 

   Setting the **Dynamic** option to **Yes** makes it easier for Users viewing the Report to change the data they see without actually editing the Report. Users can see the filter by opening the **Filters** drop-down from the top of the Report page.

* **Group by** - Select the columns for which you want to group data. By default, Reports show all items individually. In many Reports, you may see the same Contact, Company, or item appear multiple times. To only see each record listed once, you can add a grouping based on some attribute for the record. 

You can use Email or Contact ID to display a single row per Contact record. For example, you can group by **Contact ID** to view the unique number of Asset Downloads or Form Submissions for a single Form, instead of total Asset Downloads or Form Submissions, which could include duplicates.

> * **Calculated columns** - Select the function that you want to apply to individual columns. Calculated columns display count, average, sum, or the minimum or maximum values from a selected field. They're only available when a grouping is used to show a calculation for that grouping. Continuing with the previous example of grouping by a Contact ID number or email address, a COUNT calculation displays how many times that contact record appears on the Report if not for the grouping.

Reviewer: Change to

```
* **Calculated columns** - Select the function that you want to apply to individual columns. Calculated columns display count, average, sum, or the minimum or maximum values from a selected field. They're only available when using a grouping to show a calculation for that grouping. Continuing with the previous example of grouping by a Contact ID number or Email address, a COUNT calculation displays how many times that Contact record appears on the Report if not for the grouping.
```

Graphs
======

.. image:: images/mautic-report-graph.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Data

Some Report types display graphs for visualization purposes. You can include such graphs in Reports and use them in Dashboard widgets.

* To select an available graph and add it to the Report, click the name of the graph to move it from the left column to the right.
* To remove a graph from a Report, click the name in the right column to move it to the left.
  
The availability and types of graphs vary by Report type. 

Schedule
========

Mautic allows scheduling Emails to send downloadable links containing the Report data in the ``.csv`` file format.

Use the toggle switch to turn on or off sending Reports via email.

* Email Report - Select **Yes** to see additional options.

* To - Specify the email addresses that should receive the Report. To send to multiple recipients, separate their email addresses with a comma. For example, ``example1@example.com``, ``example2@example.com``. 

> * **Every** - Select the frequency with which you’d like to automatically send the Report:

Reviewer: Fix the apostrophe

```
* **Every** - Select the frequency with which you'd like to automatically send the Report:
```

  - **now** - Sends the Report once, when it's saved.
  - **day** - Sends the Report every day at midnight in your time zone.

>   - **week** - After selecting week, select the day of the week you’d like to send the Report. The Report is sent at midnight in your time zone every week on the selected day.

Reviewer: Replace with:
```
  - **week** - After selecting week, select the day of the week you'd like to send the Report. Mautic sends the Report at midnight in your time zone every week on the selected day.
```

  - **month** - After selecting month, select either the first or last and a day of the week. For example, set your Report to be automatically sent on the first Monday or last Friday of each month. 

Alternatively, you can select Weekdays to send the Report on the first or last weekday of each month.

> Once you’ve set all of the options you’d like in the **Details**, **Data**, **Graphs**, and **Schedule** tabs, click **Save & Close** to save the Report. Clicking **Apply** saves the progress you’ve made on building the Report and keeps you in the edit mode.

Reviewer: Change to:

```
Once you've set all of the options you'd like in the **Details**, **Data**, **Graphs**, and **Schedule** tabs, click **Save & Close** to save the Report. Clicking **Apply** saves the progress you've made on building the Report and keeps you in the edit mode.
```

.. vale off

Cron job to schedule Reports
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. vale on

> To be able to send scheduled Reports, the following cron command is required:

Reviewer: Change to:
```
Mautic requires the following cron command to be able to send scheduled Reports:
```

``php /path/to/mautic/bin/console mautic:reports:scheduler [--report=ID]``

The ``--report=ID`` argument allows you to specify a Report by ID if required. For more information, see :ref:`Cron jobs<send scheduled reports cron job>`.

Report options
==============

> Once you’ve saved the Report, it's listed under the Reports section in Mautic.

Reviewer: Fix the apostrophe:
```
Once you've saved the Report, it's listed under the Reports section in Mautic.
```

Reports
#######

Mautic's Reports menu allows you to generate highly customizable Reports.

You can use the reporting tools to track marketing metrics, identify marketing activities that are effective or need improvement, and troubleshoot or investigate if you are curious about why something is happening.

To get to Reports, click the Reports link from the menu on the left side of your instance. To create a new Report, click the **+New** button in the top right corner.

.. image:: images/mautic-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Please remove extra spaces here

1. :doc:`Assets</components/assets>`

   * Assets
   * Asset Downloads

2. :doc:`Campaigns</campaigns/campaigns_overview>`
   
   * Campaign Events

3. :doc:`Channels Messages</queue/message_queue>`
   
   * Message Queue

4. :doc:`Emails</channels/emails>`
    
   * Emails
   * Emails Sent

5. :doc:`Forms</components/forms>`
   
   * Forms
   * Form Submissions

6. :doc:`Contacts</contacts/manage_contacts>`
   
   * Contacts
   * Multi Touch Attributions
   * First Touch Attributions
   * Last Touch Attributions
   * Contact Point Log
   * Frequency Rules
   * Segment Membership
   * Do Not Contact
   * UTM Codes

7. :doc:`Companies</companies/companies_overview>`
   
   * Companies

8. :doc:`Mobile Notifications</channels/marketing_messages>`
   
   * Mobile Notifications
   * Mobile Notifications Sent

9. :doc:`Pages</components/landing_pages>`
    
   * Landing Pages
   * Page hits

10. Videos

    * Video hits

As demonstrated, Mautic displays the data sources in the format: ``<Parent data source> <Child data source>``

> The parent data source provides a high-level summary of the data while the child data source provides a more granular view of Contact behavior that includes your custom fields and values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parent data source provides a high-level summary of the data while the child data source provides a more granular view of Contact behavior that includes your Custom Fields and values.
```

* **Owner** - Select the owner of the Report to determine who can see the Report if System Report is set to No.

* **Dynamic filters settings**

  - Show opened by default - If you want to ensure that the date filters and filter options for any other Report filters are visible on a Report detail page without needing to open the filters drop-down, select Yes. For example, for an Emails Report, you might want to view dynamic filters for subject or sent date.
  - Hide date range - To hide the date range filter so that Users can’t change the dates that the Report displays data for, select to **Yes**.

Data
====

You can customize each Report to include the columns of choice, filter data based on set criteria, and/or set a specific order for the data. In addition you can also group by specific fields, and select different function operators to calculate fields. Note that when you select functions operators, a totals row is added to the Report. Choosing to export a Report **won't** include this totals row.

.. image:: images/mautic-report-data.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Data

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not sure if there was a need for this character but it seems to be extraneous.

> * **Columns** - Select the columns of data that you want to appear in the table of data in the Report. Click the column name in the left column to have it show in the Report. You can remove a column from the Report by clicking on its right column. The column returns to its original position on the left side. For example, if you select ID, it refers to the **ID** for the parent data source Category that you selected earlier Contact ID, Email ID, Asset ID, etc. It's recommended that you include **ID** in all Reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Columns** - Select the columns of data that you want to appear in the table of data in the Report. Click the column name in the left column to have it show in the Report. You can remove a column from the Report by clicking on its right column. The column returns to its original position on the left side. For example, if you select ID, it refers to the **ID** for the parent data source Category that you selected earlier Contact ID, Email ID, Asset ID, etc. It's recommended that you include **ID** in all Reports.

```

You can use Email or Contact ID to display a single row per Contact record. For example, you can group by **Contact ID** to view the unique number of Asset Downloads or Form Submissions for a single Form, instead of total Asset Downloads or Form Submissions, which could include duplicates.

* **Calculated columns** - Select the function that you want to apply to individual columns. Calculated columns display count, average, sum, or the minimum or maximum values from a selected field. They're only available when a grouping is used to show a calculation for that grouping. Continuing with the previous example of grouping by a Contact ID number or email address, a COUNT calculation displays how many times that contact record appears on the Report if not for the grouping.

Graphs
======

.. image:: images/mautic-report-graph.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Data

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  - **month** - After selecting month, select either the first or last and a day of the week. For example, set your Report to be automatically sent on the first Monday or last Friday of each month. 

Alternatively, you can select Weekdays to send the Report on the first or last weekday of each month.

Once you’ve set all of the options you’d like in the **Details**, **Data**, **Graphs**, and **Schedule** tabs, click **Save & Close** to save the Report. Clicking **Apply** saves the progress you’ve made on building the Report and keeps you in the edit mode.

.. vale off

Cron job to schedule Reports
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. vale on

To be able to send scheduled Reports, the following cron command is required:

``php /path/to/mautic/bin/console mautic:reports:scheduler [--report=ID]``

The ``--report=ID`` argument allows you to specify a Report by ID if required. For more information, see :ref:`Cron jobs<send scheduled reports cron job>`.

Report options
==============

Once you’ve saved the Report, it's listed under the Reports section in Mautic.

.. image:: images/mautic-report-options.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Options

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* **Data source** - Select the data source appropriate to the Report that you are building. Note that each data source has a different set of available columns, filters, and graphs. The available data sources are:

1. :doc:`Assets</components/assets>`

   * Assets
   * Asset Downloads

2. :doc:`Campaigns</campaigns/campaigns_overview>`
   
   * Campaign Events

3. :doc:`Channels Messages</queue/message_queue>`
   
   * Message Queue

4. :doc:`Emails</channels/emails>`
    
   * Emails
   * Emails Sent

5. :doc:`Forms</components/forms>`
   
   * Forms
   * Form Submissions

6. :doc:`Contacts</contacts/manage_contacts>`
   
   * Contacts
   * Multi Touch Attributions
   * First Touch Attributions
   * Last Touch Attributions
   * Contact Point Log
   * Frequency Rules
   * Segment Membership
   * Do Not Contact
   * UTM Codes

7. :doc:`Companies</companies/companies_overview>`
   
   * Companies

8. :doc:`Mobile Notifications</channels/marketing_messages>`
   
   * Mobile Notifications
   * Mobile Notifications Sent

9. :doc:`Pages</components/landing_pages>`
    
   * Landing Pages
   * Page hits

10. Videos

    * Video hits

> As demonstrated, Mautic displays the data sources in the format: <Parent data source> <Child data source>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As demonstrated, Mautic displays the data sources in the format: ``<Parent data source> <Child data source>``
```

I think this should be inlined to make it more visible? What do you think?

Author: I agree

* **Description (optional)** - Add detailed information about the Report, helping you and other Users better understand what the Report is for. You may want to include more information about filters, people, or departments.

* **Published** - Select **Yes** to ensure that the Report is active and can be sent at whatever schedule is set in the Report options.

* **System Report** - Select **Yes** so that all Users can access the Report. If set to No, only the owner of the Report and Users with permission to view others' Reports can see the Report.

* **Owner** - Select the owner of the Report to determine who can see the Report if System Report is set to No.

* **Dynamic filters settings**

  - Show opened by default - If you want to ensure that the date filters and filter options for any other Report filters are visible on a Report detail page without needing to open the filters drop-down, select Yes. For example, for an Emails Report, you might want to view dynamic filters for subject or sent date.
  - Hide date range - To hide the date range filter so that Users can’t change the dates that the Report displays data for, select to **Yes**.

Data
====

> You can customize each Report to include the columns of choice. Filter data based on set criteria and/or set a specific order for the data. In addition you can also group by and select different function operators to calculate fields. Note that when you select functions operators a totals row is added to the Report. Choosing to export a Report **won't** include this totals row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize each Report to include the columns of choice, filter data based on set criteria, and/or set a specific order for the data. In addition you can also group by specific fields, and select different function operators to calculate fields. Note that when you select functions operators, a totals row is added to the Report. Choosing to export a Report **won't** include this totals row.
```

Graphs
======

.. image:: images/mautic-report-graph.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Data

|

Some Report types display graphs for visualization purposes. You can include such graphs in Reports and use them in Dashboard widgets.

* To select an available graph and add it to the Report, click the name of the graph to move it from the left column to the right.
* To remove a graph from a Report, click the name in the right column to move it to the left.
  
The availability and types of graphs vary by Report type. 

Schedule
========

Mautic allows scheduling Emails to send downloadable links containing the Report data in the ``.csv`` file format.

Use the toggle switch to turn on or off sending Reports via email.

* Email Report - Select **Yes** to see additional options.

> * To - Specify the email addresses that should receive the Report. To send to multiple recipients, separate their email addresses with a comma. For example, ``example1@yourcompany.com``, ``example2@yourcompany.com``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To - Specify the email addresses that should receive the Report. To send to multiple recipients, separate their email addresses with a comma. For example, ``example1@example.com``, ``example2@example.com``. 
```

Reports
#######

.. vale on

Mautic's Report menu allows you to generate highly customizable Reports.

You can use the reporting tools to track marketing metrics, identify marketing activities that are effective (or need improvement), and troubleshoot or investigate if you are curious about why something is happening.

To get to Reports, click the Reports link from the menu on the left side of your instance. To create a new report, click the **+New** button in the top right corner.

.. image:: images/mautic-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report

|

> .. vale off

Author: This was an oversight. Thank you for pointing it out

Data Sources
============

.. vale on

The **Details** tab on a Report contains the same options across all Reports and provides some general options for your report.

.. image:: images/mautic-report-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Details

* **Name** - Specify a Report name that makes it easy for you and other Users to identify the purpose of the Report.

* **Data Source** - Select the data source appropriate to the report that you are building. Note that each data source has a different set of available columns, filters, and graphs. The available data sources are:

> 1. Assets

Author: Yes, I agree. This will make it easier for users to access the docs.

.. note:: 

   If you add multiple fields to order by, the last one in the Order list is used first. For example, if you order by **First Name Ascending** and then add **Email Ascending**, the Email column is sorted first and any duplicate rows is then sorted by first name ascending.

* **Filters** - Filter the data by using conditions and values. Hence, you can generate granular reports. This option helps you to narrow down the data included in the report. The data points used for filters don’t have to be columns that appear in the report table. A commonly used filter for any reports that include Contact record data is Email Not Empty, which displays only identified Contacts in the Report. Additional use cases can be including Contacts or items that match a certain value, events happening within a certain date range, etc.

.. note:: 

   Setting the **Dynamic** option to **Yes** makes it easier for Users viewing the Report to change the data they see without actually editing the Report. Users can see the filter by opening the **Filters** drop-down from the top of the report page.

> * **Group by** - Select the columns for which you want to group data. By default, reports show all items individually. In many reports, you may see the same contact, company, or item appear multiple times. To only see each record listed once, you can add a grouping based on some attribute for the record. You can use Email or Contact ID to display a single row per Contact record. For example, you can group by **Contact ID** to view the unique number of Asset Downloads or Form Submissions for a single Form, instead of total Asset Downloads or Form Submissions, which could include duplicates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Group by** - Select the columns for which you want to group data. By default, Reports show all items individually. In many Reports, you may see the same Contact, Company, or item appear multiple times. To only see each record listed once, you can add a grouping based on some attribute for the record. 

You can use Email or Contact ID to display a single row per Contact record. For example, you can group by **Contact ID** to view the unique number of Asset Downloads or Form Submissions for a single Form, instead of total Asset Downloads or Form Submissions, which could include duplicates.
```

> * **Calculated columns** - Select the function that you want to apply to individual columns. Calculated columns display count, average, sum, or the minimum or maximum values from a selected field. They are only available when a grouping is used to show a calculation for that grouping. Continuing with the previous example of grouping by a contact ID number or email address, a COUNT calculation displays how many times that contact record appears on the report if not for the grouping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Calculated columns** - Select the function that you want to apply to individual columns. Calculated columns display count, average, sum, or the minimum or maximum values from a selected field. They are only available when a grouping is used to show a calculation for that grouping. Continuing with the previous example of grouping by a Contact ID number or email address, a COUNT calculation displays how many times that contact record appears on the Report if not for the grouping.
```

Graphs
======

.. image:: images/mautic-report-graph.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Data

|

> Some report types display graphs for visualization purposes. You can include such graphs in reports and use them in dashboard widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Report types display graphs for visualization purposes. You can include such graphs in Reports and use them in Dashboard widgets.
```

> * To select an available graph and add it to the report, click the name of the graph to move it from the left column to the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To select an available graph and add it to the Report, click the name of the graph to move it from the left column to the right.
```

> * To remove a graph from a report, click the name in the right column to move it to the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To remove a graph from a Report, click the name in the right column to move it to the left.
```

> The availability and types of graphs vary by report type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The availability and types of graphs vary by Report type. 
```

Schedule
========

> Mautic enables scheduling Emails to send downloadable links containing the report data in the ``.csv`` file format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mautic allows scheduling Emails to send downloadable links containing the Report data in the ``.csv`` file format.
```

> Use the toggle switch to enable or disable sending Reports via Email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the toggle switch to turn on or off sending Reports via email.
```

* Email report - Set this toggle bar to **Yes** to see additional options.

> * To - Specify the Email addresses that should receive the report. To send to multiple recipients, separate their Email addresses with a comma. For example, ``example1@yourcompany.com``, ``example2@yourcompany.com``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To - Specify the email addresses that should receive the Report. To send to multiple recipients, separate their email addresses with a comma. For example, ``example1@yourcompany.com``, ``example2@yourcompany.com``. 
```

> * **Every** - Select the frequency with which you’d like to automatically send the report:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Every** - Select the frequency with which you’d like to automatically send the Report:
```

>   - **now** - Sends the report once, when the report is saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **now** - Sends the Report once, when it is saved.
```

>   - **day** - Sends the report every day at midnight in your time zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **day** - Sends the Report every day at midnight in your time zone.
```

>   - **week** - After selecting week, select the day of the week you’d like to send the report. The report is sent at midnight in your time zone each week on the selected day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **week** - After selecting week, select the day of the week you’d like to send the Report. It is sent at midnight in your time zone, every week on the selected day.
```

>   - **month** - After selecting month, select either first or last and a day of the week. For example, set your report to be automatically sent on the first Monday or last Friday of each month. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **month** - After selecting month, select either the first or last and a day of the week. For example, set your Report to be automatically sent on the first Monday or last Friday of each month. 
```

> Alternatively, you can select Weekdays to send the report on the first or last weekday of each month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can select Weekdays to send the Report on the first or last weekday of each month.
```

> Once you’ve set all of the options you’d like in the **Details**, **Data**, **Graphs**, and **Schedule** tabs, click **Save & Close** to save the report. Clicking **Apply** saves the progress you’ve made on building the report and keeps you in the edit mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you’ve set all of the options you’d like in the **Details**, **Data**, **Graphs**, and **Schedule** tabs, click **Save & Close** to save the Report. Clicking **Apply** saves the progress you’ve made on building the Report and keeps you in the edit mode.
```

> Cron job to schedule reports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. vale off
Cron job to schedule Reports
.. vale on
```

This is a valid use of vale off/on - we need to capitalise Reports as we are referring to a 'thing' in Mautic, but it is not allowed due to our rule that says only the first letter of the heading should use a capital letter. So we tell Vale we explicitly want it to ignore our rules because we know that we are correct in breaking them.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To be able to send scheduled reports, the following cron command is required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to send scheduled Reports, the following cron command is required:
```

``php /path/to/mautic/bin/console mautic:reports:scheduler [--report=ID]``

> The ``--report=ID`` argument allows you to specify a report by ID if required. For more information, see :ref:`Cron jobs<send scheduled reports cron job>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``--report=ID`` argument allows you to specify a Report by ID if required. For more information, see :ref:`Cron jobs<send scheduled reports cron job>`.
```

> Report Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report options
```

Check Vale - this should throw a warning.

==============

> Once you’ve saved the report, go to your reports list to see the new report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you’ve saved the Report, it is listed under the Reports section in Mautic.
```

.. image:: images/mautic-report-options.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Screenshots of Mautic Report Options

|

> To view additional options for report, click the drop-down menu next to the check box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view additional options for a Report, click the drop-down menu next to the check box.
```

* **Edit** takes you directly to the edit mode, rather than clicking on the view page and editing from there.

> * **Clone** copies the report so that you can make small adjustments in a similar but new report, while maintaining the original report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Clone** copies the Report so that you can make small adjustments in a similar but new Report, while maintaining the original.
```

> * **Export & Send** sends a link containing the ``.csv`` file with the report data to the Email address on your User profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Export & Send** sends a link containing the ``.csv`` file with the Report data to the email address on your User profile.
```

> * **Delete** deletes the report immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Delete** deletes the Report immediately.
```
